# Derrivative-pricing---Asian-Barrier-European-option---Using-MC-and-BS


In this assignment you need to compare prices of a European call and put options computed fromBlack-Scholes formula and from Monte Carlo simulations.Price  of  underlying  stock  today  (t=  0),  i.e.,  spot  price  today,  isS0=  100,  strike  at  expiry  isK= 105, years to expiryT= 1, risk-free rater= 0:05, drift= 0:05, volatility= 0:2.Barrier OptionA barrier option is a type of option whose payo  depends on whether or not the underlying assethas reached or exceeded a predetermined price -barrier.There are two general types of barrier options,inandoutoptions. Anknock-outoption only payso  if the stock does not hit the barrier level throughout the life of the option. If the stock hits aspeci ed barrier, then it has knocked out and expires worthless.  Aknock-inoption on the otherhand only pays out if the barrier is crossed during the life of the option.If the barrier price is above the spot price, then the option is an up option; if the barrier is belowthe spot price then it is a down option.  Therefore, we can categorize barrier options (put/call) asfollows:  down-and-out, down-and-in, up-and-out and up-and-in.Monte  Carlo  simulations  can  be  used  to  price  barrier  options  in  a  similar  manner  as  Europeanoptions.  Once multiple asset paths for GBM have been simulated, the next step is to determinethe payo  for each asset path.  This is done by evaluating each path to see whether it has hit thebarrier.  The payo  is then dependent on the type of barrier option and the knowledge of whetheror not the barrier level has been hit during the life of the option. Some options will expire worthlessif the barrier is reached, others will be worthless unless the barrier is reached.In this assignment we will only focus on knock-in option:  the option becomes a standard Europeanoption if the barrier was crossed some time before expiration.  It will then pay if it ends up in-the-money.  The barrier is $110 for this assignment and all other variables (initial stock price, strike atexpiry, years to expiry, risk-free rate, drift, volatility) remain the same as in the  rst part of theassignment.  Note that you may use di erent number of scenarios for barrier option valuation.2
